GraphiQL is a simple web app that is able to communicate with any GraphQL server,
and you're able to execute queries and mutations against it.
Once you have your application deployed and up and running,
you can access GraphiQL by going to localhost:8080 and typing in GraphiQL.
Notice, there's an i,
right here between the words Graph and QL.
This is the web application for GraphiQL.
On the left-hand side here this is what's called the command window.
This is where you enter queries and mutations.
When you click the Execute button here in the upper left-hand corner,
the results will display in this middle gray pane here.
Now, on the far right hand side,
there is this documentation explore that's very helpful.
It allows you to see all the query
operations and the mutation operations included in the schema.
So let's enter a simple query.
So our query name is findAllLocations.
Here, we're requesting back the ID.
So let's execute it.
So notice here, in the middle pane,
we have the response of findAllLocations,
and it returns only the IDs of all of the locations in our database.
So what happens if we want to bring back the ID along with the name?
We simply add name here,
and notice it has autocomplete,
which is a useful feature.
Let's click "Execute".
Now, notice in our response it brings back the location names.
We may also want the address.
Using autocomplete, again enter the address.
Click "Execute".
Notice here the address on each location is now returned.
GraphQL offers ultimate flexibility in that you
get back exactly the data you need from the API.
Now, let's test mutations.
Before testing, I wanted the location table to be empty.
So I navigated back to [inaudible].
I rename this data.sql file here so that it would not be executed,
and then I relaunched the application.
So let's test the first mutation.
That is the mutation to create a new location.
So notice here on line 29,
I'm using the mutation keyword.
I'm using the name of the mutation,
new location and passing in the name and the address and I'm requesting back the ID,
the name, and the address.
So let's execute this.
Now, I see a new location was created and it has an ID of one.
Now, let's see what happens when we attempt to update a location that doesn't exist.
So there is a mutation called updateLocationName.
So here I'm updating a location name.
I want to change the name to Jamaica airport.
I want to update the location that has this ID.
This definitely does not exist in our database.
Let's execute this.
Just as we expected,
our exception handling will return the message location not found.
So now let's update this to ID of one.
We know that one exists,
and let's execute it.
Now, the new name for Location 1 is Jamaica airport.
An application can also be deleted using a mutation.
So let's see that in action.
Again, on line 29,
were using the mutation keyword.
On line 30 the name of the mutation,
deleteLocation, and we're passing in the ID of the record to be deleted.
Let's execute that.
We receive back a true showing that the location was deleted.